- [Instructor] So let's get into some real code.
In the exercise files,
there is Spring Boot Maven project that I created
with Spring Initializr.
If you are not familiar with Spring Boot
or Spring Initializr,
I encourage you to watch the first chapter
of Learning Spring with Spring Boot.
The project's called university.
It incorporates in H two in memory database
so you can download and run the project
without any setup other than Java, Maven, and an IDE.
The base package is com dot example dot university.
There are three Java entities,
student, course, and department in the domain package.
Student
is an entity.
It has a student ID
that is automatically generated upon construction,
there's a full-time status attribute,
an age attribute,
and attendee, which is embeddable
as the person class
that has the first and last name of the student.
So person is embeddable.
It's not an entity in itself.
It's part of the student entity
and there's the first and last name attribute.
Back to student.
There is a one to many relationship
between student and courses.
So this is the list of courses that the student
is enrolled in.
Let's open course,
course is an entity.
It also has a generated ID,
a name, and a department
that the course is in.
So let's open department,
department is an entity.
It has a generated ID, as well,
a name,
and then a list of courses that are in the department.
So there's a one to many relationship back to courses.
And we have a fetch type eager
and cascade all.
Now in the repo package,
let's open student repository.
The student repository interface extends
from the spring data cred repository
where the bounded type parameters are student and integer.
Integer is the type of the student ID attribute.
Student repository inherits the create,
read, and update, and delete methods from cred repository.
I'm going to use JUnit
to exercise the repository.
It is in the source slash test folder
and the file is called crud repository demo.
This test leverages the JUnit Spring runner
to auto wire and instance of the student repository
and Spring Boot test,
which starts up the Spring Boot university application
within the JUnit JVM.
So in this example,
I'm going to run this method,
this JUnit test,
and I'm going to create some students
and persist them to the respository,
which is an in-memory database,
going to look them up and print them out
and I'm going to iterate through them
and age up each one of the students.
Add a year to each of their ages,
look them up again and print them out again
and then remove them.
I'm leveraging Java eight streams and lambdas
to print these students all in one line of code.
If this is new to you,
you should check out Learning Java Lambda Expressions.
So I'm going to debug this method
and run through these.
But wait, you might be asking.
Mary Ellen, you forgot something.
Where did you implement the repository methods?
Well, you're right.
I didn't, and what's better,
I don't have to.
At runtime during bootstrap,
Spring data scans the code for any interface
that extends the repository interface.
The implementation is inferred by the declaration.
So we see in the debugger,
this object that's reference of student repository
that actually references an object of the class,
simple JPA repository.
So let's step through these.
I have my status as full time
and let's create student Jane Doe,
who's full time and 20 years old.
We have student John Doe, who's full time and 22.
Mike Smith is full time and 18,
and Ally Kim is not full time and 19.
And show the console
and we'll
print out all those students
and so they're in our persistent store,
and now we're going to iterate through all those
and age them up and print them out.
Now they're definitely a year older
and now we're going to delete them all in one method
and verify that they are gone.
Much cleaner and better code than regular JPA.